# Supply_Chain_Analysis

The supply Chain is the network of production and logistics involved in producing and delivering goods to customers. And Supply Chain Analysis means analyzing various components of a Supply Chain to understand how to improve the effectiveness of the Supply Chain to create more value for customers.

To analyze a company’s supply chain, we need data on the different stages of the supply chain, like data about sourcing, manufacturing, transportation, inventory management, sales and customer demographics.The dataset is attached with this repository and can be dwonloaded for the analysis.

## Project Overview:

The project aims to conduct a comprehensive supply chain analysis for a company to gain insights into its sales, transportation, defects, and SKU performance.
Python will be the primary programming language used for data processing, analysis, and visualization.

## Supply Chain Optimization:

Use the insights gained from the analysis to identify potential areas for improvement in the supply chain.
Recommend strategies to optimize transportation routes, reduce defects, and improve overall supply chain efficiency.

## Sales Analysis:
Generated insights about the products that  gives maximum revenue
with the help of Plotly plotted graph for revenue generated by products wrt to their price for each product etc

## SKU Performance Analysis:
Performed SKU analysis for revenue, stock levels, and order quantity and plotted charts and graphs respectively.

## Cost Analysis
Analyzed the cost analysis by plotting a bar graph between shipping carriers and shipping costs to find out which carrier company has
given more revenue.
we also find out the company's spending cost on which type of shipping mode say rail, flight, etc

## Defect Analysis
The defect rate in the supply chain refers to the percentage of products that have something wrong or are found broken after shipping
We found out the product type with the most defect by plotting a graph between product type and defect rate as given in our dataset using Plotly
We also found the defect rate by mode of transportation say which mode of transportation leads to most defects.

# Summary
Supply Chain Analysis means analyzing various components of a Supply Chain to understand how to improve the effectiveness of the Supply Chain to create more value for customers.

